## HTTP Response Status Codes

Every HTTP response contains a status code and, optionally, a reason phrase describing the status code. Status codes are fundamental to the HTTP protocol and are a standardized way of indicating common results. A 200 response means the request was successfully answered, whereas a 404 response indicates that the resource requested couldn't be found. You can see the full list of standardized status codes at https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#name-status-codes.

Status codes are always three digits long and are grouped in five classes, based on the first digit:

- **1xx — Information:** Not often used; it provides a general acknowledgment.
- **2xx — Success:** The request was successfully handled and processed.
- **3xx — Redirection:** The browser must follow the provided link to allow the user to log in, for example.
- **4xx — Client Error:** A problem occurred with the request. The request sent invalid data, for example, or the user isn't authorized to perform the request.
- **5xx — Server Error:** A problem on the server caused the request to fail.

These status codes typically drive the behavior of a user's browser. The browser will handle a 301 response automatically, for example, by redirecting to the provided new link and making a second request, all without the user's interaction.

Error codes are in the 4xx and 5xx classes. Common codes include a 404 response when a file couldn't be found, a 400 error when a client sends invalid data (such as an invalid email address), and a 500 error when an error occurs on the server. HTTP responses for error codes may include a response body, which is content to display when the client receives the response.
